docs(guides) add automated coin conversion guide (#1127)
evmos/evmos: docs/developers/guides/automatic_coin_conversion.md

Learn how to the Automated Coin Conversion feature works. {synopsis}

In their ERC-20 representation, assets can be used to interact with dApps using the EVM. This standard allows developers to build applications that are interoperable with other products and services. In their Native Coin representation, they can be transferred between accounts on Evmos and other Cosmos chains using IBC. They cannot, however, be used to interact with dApps on Evmos, as Native Coins are not supported by the EVM since they don’t implement the ERC-20 standard.

In order to reduce end-user complexity, Evmos should only allow single-token representation use between IBC Coin and ERC-20s. Consequently, the Evmos team developed the Automated Coin Conversion feature to achieve this goal. It consists on converting incoming IBC vouchers to ERC-20s and modifying outgoing IBC transfers to convert ERC-20s to IBC Coins. This automated conversion occurs if, and only if, the appropriate token mapping was registered through governance. If the token pair is not registered, the IBC coin will be left as is.

Please read on for further understanding of this feature scope and functionality.

## Outbound transactions

> As an Evmos user, you may want to move your ERC-20 tokens onto another Cosmos chains. You may want to do this to use your tokens on dApps on other Cosmos chains. The automated coin conversion feature makes this operation smooth. You can send ERC-20 tokens via an IBC transfer with a single step. You can perform this operation using the Evmos [IBC transfer page](https://app.evmos.org/transfer). Under the hood, the protocol will atomatically make the conversion from ERC-20 token to IBC coin and perform the transfer to the desired Cosmos chain.

Reviewer: > As an Evmos user ...

Note that this is referring to an end-user, which is a different user than the one the guide is targeting (developers). I would recommend providing information to end users regarding the integration of this feature:

- What are the prerequisites for integration? Do I need Metamask/WalletConnect/Keplr?
- Do I need to add/change any new components to my application / UI to support ERC20 transfers via IBC or does it work with the same IBC transfer logic?
- How are the ERC20s represented? How do I transfer them via IBC?

## Inbound transactions

As an Evmos user, you may want to move IBC Coins from other Cosmos chains onto Evmos. To use these IBC coins on dApps deployed on Evmos, you need an ERC-20 representation of these. The automated coin conversion feature automatically converts the incoming IBC coins into their ERC-20 representation. In this way, you don't need to manually convert your IBC coins into ERC-20 tokens. As a result, you can use the IBC coins as ERC-20 tokens as soon as they arrive to your Evmos wallet.

The user should note that only the registered token pairs are converted. If the token pair is not registered, you will receive the corresponding IBC coin on your wallet without any further change.

:::tip
**Note**: If you have some IBC coins on Evmos already, and the token pair is registered, when you receive an IBC transfer of this denomination, the **whole balance** will be converted (the current balance plus the transfer amount).
:::

## FAQ

> ### How do I send an ERC-20 via IBC?

Reviewer: ditto, this is referring to developers

> The [IBC transfer page](https://app.evmos.org/transfer) allows you to perform IBC transfers of either ERC-20, IBC coins or Evmos tokens. With the new automated coin conversion feature, you can send ERC-20 via IBC right away. The conversion step is done automatically under the hood. Users don't need to manually convert the ERC-20 tokens into IBC coins anymore to perform this operation.

Reviewer: this would be a great paragraph for a blog post (end-users)

### Can I send WEVMOS to other chains?

> Yes! The automated coin conversion feature allows you to send ERC-20 tokens via IBC to other chains. This includes WEVMOS tokens. You can perform this operation using the [IBC transfer page](https://app.evmos.org/transfer).

Reviewer: WEVMOS transfers are not supported atm. The WEVMOS ERC20 needs to be manually unwrapped using the WEVMOS contract (on the Evmos dashboard or Diffusion) and then perform a regular IBC transfer

### Does automated coin conversion apply to all coins?

The automated coin conversion covers all IBC coins and ERC-20 tokens as long as the appropriate token mapping was registered through governance. If the token pair is not registered, the IBC coin will be left as is. Additionally, Evmos token conversion is not automated. Considering that the Evmos token is used for staking and paying gas fees, the team decided to exclude the native token automated conversion. Thus, the user experience is not undermined by this feature.

### How do I convert the Evmos token to ERC-20?

> Evmos token conversion is not automated. If you want to convert Evmos tokens into its ERC-20 representation, you will need to use [the Assets page](https://app.evmos.org/assets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conversion from EVMOS token to WEVMOS is not automated. If you want to convert EVMOS tokens into its ERC-20 representation, you will need to use [the Assets page](https://app.evmos.org/assets).
```

<!--
order: 8
-->

# Automated Coin Conversion

Learn how to the Automated Coin Conversion feature works. {synopsis}

> In their ERC-20 representation, assets can be used to interact with dApps using the EVM. This standard allows developers to build applications that are interoperable with other products and services. In their Native Coin representation, they can be transferred between accounts on Evmos and other Cosmos chains using IBC. They cannot, however, be used to interact with dApps on Evmos, as Native Coins are not supported by the EVM since they don’t implement the ERC-20 standard.

Reviewer 2: Small nit, I think singular 'representation' sounds like its ONE representation for ALL of the assets, whilst these are many different ERC-20 representations.

Also, I think adding some links here (like for the ERC-20 standard) would be helpful as well :)
```suggestion
In their [ERC-20](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/) representations, assets can be used to interact with dApps using the EVM. This standard allows developers to build applications that are interoperable with other products and services. In their Native Coin representation, they can be transferred between accounts on Evmos and other Cosmos chains using IBC. They cannot, however, be used to interact with dApps on Evmos, as Native Coins are not supported by the EVM since they don’t implement the ERC-20 standard.
```

> In order to reduce end-user complexity, Evmos should only allow single-token representation use between IBC Coin and ERC-20s. Consequently, the Evmos team developed the Automated Coin Conversion feature to achieve this goal. It consists on converting incoming IBC vouchers to ERC-20s and modifying outgoing IBC transfers to convert ERC-20s to IBC Coins. This automated conversion occurs if, and only if, the appropriate token mapping was registered through governance. If the token pair is not registered, the IBC coin will be left as is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to reduce end-user complexity, Evmos should only allow single-token representation use between IBC Coin and ERC-20s. Consequently, the Evmos team developed the Automated Coin Conversion feature to achieve this goal. It converts incoming IBC vouchers to ERC-20s and modifies outgoing IBC transfers to convert ERC-20s to IBC Coins. This automated conversion occurs if, and *only* if, the appropriate token mapping was registered through governance. If the token pair is not registered, the IBC coin will be left as is.
```

> Please read on for further understanding of this feature scope and functionality.

Reviewer 2: Nit: not sure we need this here
```suggestion
```

## Outbound transactions

> Your users may want to move their ERC-20 tokens from Evmos onto another Cosmos chains. The automated coin conversion feature makes this operation smooth. You can send ERC-20 tokens via an IBC transfer with a single step. To do so, there is no need to make any changes on your IBC transfer logic. You only need to corroborate that the corresponding denomination is passed as a parameter. For example, if you want to transfer the ERC-20 representation of the `uosmo` token on Evmos, specifying the corresponding denomination (`Token.Denom = "uosmo"`) on the `MsgTransfer` struct will suffice. The same applies to any ERC-20 token that is not a representation of a Native Coin on other Cosmos chains. Under the hood, the protocol will atomatically make the conversion from ERC-20 token to IBC coin and perform the transfer to the desired Cosmos chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your users may want to move their ERC-20 tokens from Evmos onto other Cosmos chains. The automated coin conversion feature simplifies this operation, because it enables you to send ERC-20 tokens via an IBC transfer in a single step. To do so, there is no need to make any changes on your IBC transfer logic. You only need to ensure that the corresponding denomination is passed as a parameter. For example, if you want to transfer the ERC-20 representation of the `uosmo` token on Evmos, specifying the corresponding denomination (`Token.Denom = "uosmo"`) on the `MsgTransfer` struct will suffice. The same applies to any ERC-20 token that is not a representation of a Native Coin on other Cosmos chains. Under the hood, the protocol will automatically make the conversion from ERC-20 token to IBC coin and perform the transfer to the desired Cosmos chain.
```

:::tip

> **Note**: In case of Evmos not being the source chain of the IBC coin you want to send, you will have to specify the corresponding IBC denom (e.g. `ibc/ED07A3391A112B175915CD8FAF43A2DA8E4790EDE12566649D0C2F97716B8518`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: In case Evmos is not the source chain of the sent IBC coin, you will have to specify the corresponding IBC denom (e.g. `ibc/ED07A3391A112B175915CD8FAF43A2DA8E4790EDE12566649D0C2F97716B8518`)
```

	// the tokens to be transferred
	Token types.Coin `protobuf:"bytes,3,opt,name=token,proto3" json:"token"`
	// the sender address
	Sender string `protobuf:"bytes,4,opt,name=sender,proto3" json:"sender,omitempty"`
	// the recipient address on the destination chain
	Receiver string `protobuf:"bytes,5,opt,name=receiver,proto3" json:"receiver,omitempty"`
	// Timeout height relative to the current block height.
	// The timeout is disabled when set to 0.
	TimeoutHeight types1.Height `protobuf:"bytes,6,opt,name=timeout_height,json=timeoutHeight,proto3" json:"timeout_height" yaml:"timeout_height"`
	// Timeout timestamp in absolute nanoseconds since unix epoch.
	// The timeout is disabled when set to 0.
	TimeoutTimestamp uint64 `protobuf:"varint,7,opt,name=timeout_timestamp,json=timeoutTimestamp,proto3" json:"timeout_timestamp,omitempty" yaml:"timeout_timestamp"`
	// optional memo
	Memo string `protobuf:"bytes,8,opt,name=memo,proto3" json:"memo,omitempty"`
}

type Coin struct {
	Denom  string `protobuf:"bytes,1,opt,name=denom,proto3" json:"denom,omitempty"`
	Amount Int    `protobuf:"bytes,2,opt,name=amount,proto3,customtype=Int" json:"amount"`
}
```

## Inbound transactions

> Your users may want to move IBC Coins from other Cosmos chains onto Evmos. To use these IBC coins on dApps deployed on Evmos, they need an ERC-20 representation of these. The automated coin conversion feature automatically converts the incoming IBC coins into their ERC-20 representation. In this way, you don't need to manually convert the incoming IBC coins into ERC-20 tokens. As a result, your users can use the IBC coins as ERC-20 tokens as soon as they arrive to their wallets.

Reviewer 2: You have used "Automated Coin Conversion" (upper camel case) and lower case "automated coin conversion" in the text - we should decide on one of the two.

> Should consider that only the registered token pairs are converted. If the token pair is not registered, users will receive the corresponding IBC coin on their wallet without any further change.

Reviewer 2: "change" in singular sounds like the change you get at a register (i.e. pennies), that's why I would change it here
```suggestion
It should be considered that only registered token pairs are converted.
If the token pair is not registered, users will receive the corresponding IBC coin on their wallet without any further changes.
```

:::tip
**Note**: If your users have some IBC coins on Evmos already, and the token pair is registered, when they receive an IBC transfer of this denomination, their **whole balance** will be converted (the current balance plus the transfer amount).
:::

## FAQ

### How do I send an ERC-20 via IBC?

With the new automated coin conversion feature, you can send ERC-20 via IBC right away. The conversion step is done automatically under the hood. To do this operation you only need to specify the corresponding denomination on the `MsgTransfer` struct. For example, if we want to send an ERC-20 token called `TestCoin` via IBC, use `Token.Denom = "TestCoin"`.

> ### Can I send WEVMOS to other chains?

Reviewer 2: Are these WEVMOS or wEVMOS?

Author: The [assets page](https://app.evmos.org/assets) shows it as `WEVMOS`
